MODULE 9: CLOUD ARCHITECTURE

SECTION 1: AWS WELL-ARCHITECTED FRAMEWORK
    The framework is a set of guidelines to build a robust 
    and stable AWS application. 
    Build on 5 Core pillars: 

    1. Operational Excellence
        Practices to run and monitor systems to deliver business value
        Defining performance metrics 
        Automating things like deployments, testing, and infrastructure changes

    2. Security
        Design systems that focuses on IAM (Identity and Access Management)
        principle of least privilege. If it's not explicitly allowed, it's denied.
        Encryption of data in transit and at rest.
        Logging and auditing of actions and changes to the environment.
                Security
                Monitoring
                Identity and Access Management
                Detection
                Infrastructure protection
                Data protection
                Incident response

    3. Reliability
        Systems that can recover from outages. 
        Fault tolerance, disaster recovery, and incident response. 
                Automatically recover from failure
                Test recovery procedures
                Stop guessing capacity
                Manage change in automation


    4. Performance Efficiency
        Efficient use of computing resources. 
        Selecting the right resource types and sizes based on workload requirements.
        Monitoring Performance. 
        Four Areas: 
            1. Tradeoffs 
            2. Selection 
            3. Monitoring 
            4. Review
        Design Principles:
            1. Serverless Architecture
            2. Democratize advanced technologies
            3. Experiment more often 

    5. Cost Optimization
        Avoiding unneeded costs. 
        Selecting the most appropriate and right number of resource types and sizes based on workload requirements.
        Analyzing spend over time
        Scaling without wasting resources.

    6. Sustainability
        Designing for the future. 
        Using renewable energy sources. 
        Minimizing the carbon footprint. 
        

    Benefits:
        Reliability and availability 
        Enhanced security
        Better cost Management and utilization 
        Reduced operational overhead and increased Efficiency
        A foundation to build scalable and resilient applications in the cloud 


SECTION 2: RELIABILITY AND AVAILABILITY 

    1. Reliability: 
        Definition: perform intended function without failure or disruptions
        Importance: available when needed, minimize downtime for customers 
        AWS practices: Services provided by AWS include: auto-scaling, 
            load balancing, and data redundancy across multiple availability zones    
        
    2. Availability:
        Definition: Measures the percentage of time that a system is operational. 
            Called mean time between failures (MTBF) = total time / number of failures. 
            Percentage of up-time 
        Importance: Customers expect services to be available when needed.
            Make sure your customers are happy. 
        AWS practices

    Key practices to ensure Reliability and Availability:
        1. Multi availability zones 
        2. Auto scaling 
        3. Elastic load balancing
        4. Data replication 
        5. Disaster recovery
        6. Monitoring and Alerting 
        7. Highly resilient architecture 
        8. Regular Testing 
        9. Security best practices


SECTION 3: AWS TRUSTED ADVISOR 
    Realtime tool that provides guidance to help you provision your resources
    Looks at entire AWS environment and gives you recommendations in 5 categories: 
        1. Cost Optimization
        2. Performance 
        3. Security 
        4. Fault Tolerance
        5. Service Limits


    