Problems Given to us by the teacher and some 
other problems generated by chatGPT 

1. Write Examples of supervised and Unsupervised learning 
    classification:
        Supervised: The MNIST is the most famous example of this 
            The computer attempts to classify 10 digits using 
            pre labeled 24x24 handwritten images.
        Unsupervised: Topic Modeling: give a bunch of papers, 
            classify each research paper into a certain category 

    Regression:
        Supervised: Give labeled weather data, predict
            future weather data 
        Unsupervised: anomaly detection. Given data without 
            any labeling, find unusual data points.

    Clustering: 
        Supervised: Customer grouping. Given statistics of 
            unlabeled customer data, group the customers into 
            distinct groups 
        Unsupervised: Disease Diagnosis. Give labeled data of 
            x ray data, predict if the customer has a disease.


2. Shapes 

    2. a. 
        593 examples and 42 features. If we extract the top 3 
        principle components, what will be the shape of the transformed dataset?

        A principle component is part of an analysis to reduce dimensions. 
        Therefore, the shape will be a shape of (593, 3)

        

3. Types of data attributes 

    Nominal: No inherent order or numerical value. Example:
        Blue, red, yellow, or names of countries 
    Binary: Special nominal category with only two values. 
    Ordinal: Meaningful order, but the intervals between values 
        have no meaning. Ex: Educational levels 
    Interval Scaled: Meaningful order, and the interval is meaningful,
        uniform, and equal. However, it lacks a true zero point 
    Ratio Scaled: Meaningful order, uniform intervals, and a true 
        zero point. Zero is no observed data point. 0 is the absence of height.

    Examples:
        Zip code: Nominal 
        Bank account balance: Ratio Scaled 
        Date: Interval Scaled 
        Military RAnk: Ordinal 

        